---
layout: default
title: Non-coding Instructions
permalink: /how-to/non-coding
---
## Quick Reference
> 1. Generate your dataset on the researcher workbench
> 2. Initialize your RStudio cloud environment
> 3. Download and upload the [zip file](TBD) to the cloud environment (it will unzip automatically)
> 4. Copy the SQL code into 'Data_import.R'
> 5. Type `source('master.R')` into the RStudio console and press `Enter` or `Return`, and answer the questions that come up in the console
> 6. Look at the outputs and download your plots and statistical reports.

To use the automated analysis I've built for this group, follow the instructions below:
1. Generate the desired dataset from the dataset builder on the AoU website

Help can be found [here](https://support.researchallofus.org/hc/en-us/articles/4556645124244-Using-the-Concept-Set-Selector-and-Dataset-Builder-tools-to-build-your-dataset)

The data that can be automatically processed by this system needs to have a few specific elements and meet a few requirements to work. The guidelines can be found [here](./datareqs)

2. Initialize your RStudio cloud environment
[screenshots]
[details]

3. Copy-paste or download-upload the other R files (represented by the red boxes in the figure above) to RStudio.

Download the zipfile of R scripts from [here](

In RStudio, in the 'files' tab on the bottom right pane, click 'Upload', select 'Browse...', select the zip file, and click 'OK'. RStudio will automatically unzip the contents of the zipfile into your home directory.
[screenshots]

4. Copy and paste the SQL code generated by the dataset builder to an R document named “Data_import.R”.

[screenshots]


5. Enter the text `source(‘master.R’)` in the RStudio console. After some time, the console will ask some questions about your data, and then proceed with your analysis based on your answers.
[screenshots of questions]
The questions are outlined in the figure below:
[flowchart of questions]
> Tip: You can go through the questions in the flowchart above beforehand to know what to answer when it comes up.

6. Look at the outputs (plots, statistical results, etc.) in the RStudio “files” tab and select files to download.

[Example of non-coding workflow](./Examples/BMI_noncoding)
